>> Jerome Hardaway: First thing that
I focus on is we have to know our
adversaries.
We have to know the things
that we're working on.
Now, I don't use adversaries
like a violent word.
I'm just military adversaries,
just, hey, yo, this is my opponent.
These are the things I had to prepare for,
right?
So what I have created, and
this is what I use in my troops.
I call it the user matrix.
My user matrix framework helps them and
helps me be able to identify the needs and
wants and tactics that we have to use for
each level.
Particularly for me, because I'm
coming in from outside in directly for
every experience because I'm
not working on my experience.
I'm working, I'm leveraging
someone else's experience, right?
So, my user matrix,
four components, my framework.
This is where I start at every
day with every new troop,
every new civilian, and I work through
these with every person, right?
I'm actually gonna share with you later
on one of the project boards that I have
that I share with my troops.
And I make them start answering these
questions, adding me as a collaborator so
I can learn part of this with them.
>> Jerome Hardaway: My first user,
User Zero,
because programmers start
counting at zero, right?
Is you.
You're the first user.
What I've learned in ten years of
experience is that if I can get you to
focus on your personal passions.
And how to figure out what makes you
click when it comes to this type of
industry particularly in times like this,
you're not going to survive,
you're not going to win.
So my number one priority at this
stage is to see what is in tech
that makes you wanna A,
be in tech, B, thriving tech and
how to make make you stand
out from your constituents.
Also out to get that mental toughness and
grit for
when the markets crazy hard, right?
Like it is right now.
So that is my first user
on every conversation and
that should be your first user as well.
Start with you.
Start with what are the things
that you wanna do?
I have my own personal philosophy,
including I have what is called a 5 AM
rule, which is what is the type of
tech that I would love to work on.
If somebody called me,
there was an outage at 5 AM, I wouldn't be
super mad if I had to go roll out a bit
and build on this stuff right now.
You can have your own personal philosophy,
right?
But that is what User Zero is about.
It's dive in deep and focusing on,
all right, who you are.
So that way we can build projects
around the things you care about.
So that way no one's sharing the same
three pit league projects, right?
It's saying, here's a JavaScript
calculator, here's a Netflix clone and
what is the other most popular
project that you see with junior?
These days, Netflix clone,
Jaws calculator, and.
>> Student: To do list.
>> Jerome Hardaway: To do list,
there you go.
Those are the top three that
you see in your life, okay?
That's that doesn't really apply and
then you have seen this a million times.
What are we gonna do?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Now
this is the scary one for
those that don't have network's either
let's say you've been in tech so
long, you haven't been really focusing
on your network has been saying job.
Or you're just now breaking into tech
ATS which is applicant tracking systems.
Let's now talk about the big
man in the room, workday we
all hate workday combined, workday is,
I'll never be sponsored by them.
[LAUGH] So, those are the applicant
tracking systems that focus on
key word technical skill identification.
They have artificial
intelligence built into them,
whereas they start focusing on what
words and what resumes start getting
the most success rates starting and
hired from those clients.
Stores dwindling down, and
you have to start getting it started and
get smarter and
more difficult at the same time.
So you have to get you have to
beat the machine in the sun game.
So that is user one, where we do
this is we focus on our resumes.
We focus on updating our resumes
based upon those components and
we constantly we evolve with the machine?
Yes, sir.
>> Student: Are there any websites or
tools to analyze
your resume to pull out what it's seeing?.
>> Jerome Hardaway: Cool, so I have my own
resume GPT that I can actually make public
and share it with people.
It does want to, but I have tested
three different companies and
the company that works
the best right now is Teal.
Teal is the best tool out there.
>> Student: How do you spell that?
>> Jerome Hardaway: T-E-A-L.
>> Jerome Hardaway: That's the best
tool out there for your resumes.
If you're for
resume tracking and cleaning up,
making sure as metric based all the things
that are evolving with the current market
that is the best resource that I've
seen if you're gonna pay for a resource.
That's what I recommend.
User two, HR managers now, two years ago,
HR managers were fun because
the cash was flush and
they could just throw a job
out there with like 20,
30% more money than what the job is and
pick up whoever.
And they get their percentage,
you get your percentage.
Everybody's happy, right?
Well, 2022 happened and
they were one of the first people
that were cut in the culling of
markets when it came to companies.
And those that stayed,
they are having to be very stark stewards
of the jobs and the budget, right?
So they're not as fun as they used to
be one and two they're looking for
more false positives than
negatives in the market right now.
So these are the things where your
clarity, your organization and
your professionalism is
getting the one and done rule.
We're I see a typo,
I'm not gonna use this person's,
we're not gonna hire this person they're
trying to find ways to disqualify you.
And the disqualifications are minor and
insignificant right now in this
market because how tight it is to
right now the talent is talent rich,
but job poor, right?
So they have to find the best client or
best talent for this woman,
take the job based upon that,
that salary, and
they're disqualifying people on
the smallest things, unfortunately.
So we have to focus on being sharper
as well as they are also using
artificial tools.
A lot of HR managers are using a lot
of sentiment analysis tools to try to
figure out not only on that first call.
I don't know if you have gone
through an interview with HR Manager
in a recent time.
But they are using phone technology
to own the door and to call for
sentiment analysis to AC if you're lying
and to C, to pick up if you're nervous,
confident, what is your emotional status
while you're talking to them, right?
And then they're also
having that recording and
having other team members listen before
they move on to the second round, right?
So this is the new game.
So one of the things that you're gonna
have to do that we're gonna go further
into is you're gonna have to practice
your interview skills a lot more.
Particularly your elevator pitch and
just practicing how you speak to people
in general, because that's part of
the new interview phase when it
comes to artificial intelligence.
>> Student: Any tips for
staying confident?
>> Jerome Hardaway: Practice,
biggest tip is practice,
one you have to understand that
the person on the other side of
that line doesn't know you
as well as you know you.
So, make sure that you're a,
practicing the pitch,
practicing the things that you want to say
that's gonna make you stand out, right?
Practice ensuring that you have
your metrics, is very metric based.
Right now, they wanna to see
not only what you've built, but
what was the impact of his building,
even if you're a junior like which is why
building in public is so important now.
Because you know how many users have
touched your has touched your portfolio?
How many are you getting feedback?
How are you handling feedback?
Things like that.
So that is what you do.
You just have to practice.
You have to keep practicing,
get your pitch down,
understand how to tell your story.
And also, like I said, remember,
this person does not know you
better than you know you.
So you don't have to be nervous,
be confident in your skills right?
In the military,
we have a saying that confidence,
like confidence nervousness comes
from lack of preparation, right?
So the more prepared more you prepare,
the more you practice,
the less nervous you're going to
be right because that nervousness
comes from things external
that you can't control.
I can control with the things I know about
me that I'm gonna tell a person, right?
So I'm gonna practice that, and
I'm gonna get better at that, right?
Now developer teams used to be,
though, unless you're getting for
the magnificent seven,
you were gonna go through a three, four,
five round inner process,
right with a developer.
Now, in this current market,
it's very normal to go through
multiple rounds and
have multiple developers.
I have seen at least two that's for
pre IPO startups where,
you have to do the code challenge and
then you'd have to do multiple
round interview with the dev team.
And that is very different when we
were getting two years ago right
unless you are going for the Microsoft,
the videos, apples of the world
it was a three interview process.
And then you were like okay cool now it's
five, six rounds for the interview and
the developer team is playing a much more,
much more hands on role for it.
So with these,
they want to see if you're a team member,
how you collaborate as a unit, how do
you communicate, and of course, focus on
technical skills in this era where
everybody's focusing on productivity.
The harsh reality is the things that are
being pushed away is how do we onboard?
Two years ago, onboarding was such
an important, holistic approach.
And now we're seeing, because
everybody's trying to move fast, and
particularly in this current era where
we're trying to adopt new technologies.
They don't want to have to spend the time
onboarding you in a company onboarding you
into the stack as much as they used to.
And while that is a detriment to
the talent, the current market,
that's the world we live in and
we have to be prepared for that.
So you have to, and I'm also seeing
a lot more computer science, questions,
a lot more, complexity and talking about
performance within code challenges.
So we have to start planning and
practicing for
that when we're building out
our plans to get on the market.
So the matrix is a strategy of improving
how you present well for your work.
And also how to continuously
present well for yourself, right?
I used to matrix on myself
regularly to build my projects,
to build what am I gonna
build next externally?
How am I gonna explain it?
What is my next career step, etc, right?
So that's how I focus.
I use the user matrix on me to focus
on how to prepare well for the market.
I want you to start using the user matrix
for you to enhance your professional
success and your chances and
keep it going for yourself, right?
That is one of the biggest things
that I want you all to take away.
This right here is the core foundation
of my style of self-improvement,
as well as helping my troops and
helping big civilians that I help, right?
Keeping a nice long career I'm
always assessing, starting here and
assessing with these
things with every job,
even the job I'm at currently
I'm looking at all right.
When I think about the developer
teams I'm looking at okay,
what developer teams aren't
being impacted by fire and
what it is skills that those
developer teams at work have.
And what do I need to do to quickly
upskill on those skills, right?
When Microsoft two years ago was
starting talking about AI and
big data,
I started learning Python on my own.
Because in case things
changed drastically,
I wanted to be able to say,
hey, I already have this skill.
So I can go over here and do big data and
do data engineering, and that helped me
not only with one of our projects
where we had to do data engineering,
cuz I was already upskilled in Python.
It also helped me prepare for
the current era AI since JavaScript and
Python are two of the most popular
languages in this space right now.
So that is how I might even in my
current role planned out how hey,
based upon user three,
what do I need to do user three
been developer teams at Microsoft?
What is the business
line looking focusing on?
Hey, this is what the business line is
paying the developer teams to do And
these are the safest teams,
let me acquire these skills, right?
So like even when you're at your current
job, you can be using the metrics.